Level 1 Note:
Start here if you are already comfortable with the fundamentals of programming (variables, objects, functions, etc) and are ready to take on the challenge of building a larger object-oriented programming (OOP) project. 

If you need a refresher, or are less comfortable working with JavaScript and the p5.js library, you are encouraged to start at Level 0 instead (assignment 0.0 Hello World).

If you just completed Level 0, a hearty congratulations to you! There is a big jump in difficulty between Level 0 and Level 1, but you've got this. :)

Happy coding!
Jordan
Ramp Program Coordinator


Welcome to Ramp! 
We are excited to have you in the program and we look forward to helping you strengthen your programming skills.

This first assignment is designed to quickly get you familiar with the course structure and how to get the most out of it.


Links
If you haven't already, check out each of the following resources:

Program Guide: make.sc/ramp-guide
Review the program goals and requirements. Includes a more detailed guide to using the repl.it classroom and how to get the most out of Ramp.

Office Hours Calendar: make.sc/ramp-calendar
See when the next available online office hours are.

Slack Discussion: make.sc/ramp-slack
Get code help from instructors, mentors, and your peers.

Getting Started
Each assignment is set up like a web page, that can use HTML, CSS, and Javascript.
In the code window, you should see several tabs along the top that you can switch between:
index.html // web page
sketch.js  // JS file where you will complete challenges
helpers.js // JS file with helper code you should not change
This course uses p5.js, which is a Javascript library (extra features packaged together for convenience), so the majority of your code will be added to sketch.js.
In some assignments there will be code in helper.js that helps make the program more beginner friendly but that you don't need to interact with directly. Feel free to look at the contents, but do not make edits.

Submitting 
Once you are finished with an assignment you can submit it using the buttons in the upper right corner.
The instructors can mark the assignment as completed,  or send it back to you with feedback for changes if it's not quite working yet.
There is no need to wait for feedback before moving on to the next assignment if you feel ready.

Getting Stuck 
What if you are stuck and haven't completed the challenges? Include details about what you are stuck on in a comment at the top of sketch.js and submit the assignment.
An instructor will then review your submission, give feedback on your code and answer any questions.

Office Hours 
Office hours are on a drop-in basis, no need to schedule in advance, just join the meeting by clicking the link on the calendar event. make.sc/ramp-calendar
If none of the office hours fit your schedule and you need help, please send an email and we can make other arrangements.

Other Questions 
Please email ramp@makeschool.com for any other questions you have. 
Good luck, and happy coding! :)


Complete Code Challenges 
in index.html 
Step 1: Add your name inside the h1 tags 
add your name so that it says "YOURNAME's Hello OOP" 

in sketch.js 
Step 2: Answer a question using the print function 
Question: What is the difference between a class and an instance? 
Type your answer inside of the print function 
View the console tab in the results panel to see your answer 

Example:



Step 3: Modify the Avatar constructor to take the following parameters
name
height
width
eyeColor
hairColor
hatColor

Step 4: Create an instance of the Avatar class
ensure your instance is assigned to a global variable
ensure you are passing in all of the required parameters

Step 5: Add a show() function to the Avatar class
Use p5.js functions to draw avatars using all 8 of the properties
Call show() on your avatar instance in the draw function

Step 6: Add an updateLocation() function to the Avatar class
Update the avatars x and y values from passed in function arguments
In draw, call your new function so that your avatar is always at the mouse location

Bonus 1: Make your avatar speak when the mouse is pressed
Give your avatar a catchphrase
Display the catchphrase on the canvas when the mouse is pressed
Use OOP to think about where your new code makes the most sense!

Bonus 2: Speak random phrases
Modify your code so that avatars can have more than one catchphrase
Modify your code so that when the mouse is pressed, they speak one of their phrases at random
